WoWAce Portage System

1) What is this

The WoWAce Portage System is a Platform Independent alternative to the WAU (WoWAceUpdater).
It is written entirely in Standard Perl and needs the Perl Interpreter installed.
The Scripts have been tested with Perl 5.8.7 but i guess it should work with any Perl Version above 5.8.

You can get a free Perl Interpreter for almost any Platform at http://www.activestate.com/Products/ActivePerl/.

Used Modules:
    use Time::Local;
    use LWP::UserAgent;
    use HTTP::Request;
    use Archive::Zip;
    use Cwd;
    use File::Temp;
    use File::Path;
    use File::Copy;

Though it has been tested for a while now i still consider this BETA, so if you have Bug's to report or Suggestions/Additions you are welcome to Contact me. Since it's Perl the Source Code is open, so no need to ask for it ;).

The WoWAce Portage System and all it's Scripts/Modules are provided as-is. Use them at your own Risk.


2) Setup

To get the System working you have to edit the emerge.cfg to adjust the Path's for the WoW Installation.
You have to edit the Following Parameters:

  PORTDIR        -- where to store the Portage Database (Information of all available Addons)
  DISTDIR        -- where to store the Downloaded ZIP Files, for later re-use
  WOWROOT        -- where WoW is Installed
  PATHDELIM        -- \ or / depending on Platform

You can also edit the USE Flags inside the emerge.cfg. Their use is explained in there.

Before Using the System you should Sync with the Server first check 3.4 on this.

3) Usage


* 3.1 Emerging Addons
To call the Desired function you have to use a Command Line or Batch File/Shell Script.
The Script is always called with "emerge.pl" or "perl emerge.pl".

The Normal usage is to call the Emerge with an Addon Name. It will then look for the Addons specified and emerge it to your WoW Installation.

    Example: emerge.pl BigWigs

    Note: the Addon Name must not be Case Sensitive but has to be exact in spelling

If you have the .zip Files in your DISTDIR Folder than no communication with the Internet is required at all, this can be very handy for Offline Installations of WoW.


* 3.2 Searching Addons
You can Search for Specific Addons with the --search or -s parameter.
The Portage will search and List any matching Addon displaying the Latest Version, the Installed Version, last modification Date and the Description for each match.

    Example: emerge.pl -s FuBar

    Note: this performs a full-text search with the supplied string(s). Meaning you would also find FuBar_RegenFu etc in this Case


* 3.3 Updating Installed Addons
If you supply "world" as Addon name it will be replaced with any Addon you have installed.

    Example: emerge.pl world
    This would emerge/update all Addons you have installed, note that this will Install only updates that updated versions available


* 3.4 syncing Portage Database
To get Information about newly added/updated addons the Database needs to Sync with the Web.
This is currently done by Checking a Web Page containing the Information (currently http://www.wowace.com/files/).
The Address is specified within the emerge.cfg if you wish to create your own mirror.
To Sync simply call the Emerge with the --sync or -y.

    Example: emerge.pl --sync


* 3.5 Tips

Parameters do not have to be in Specific Order and several Addons and Parameters can be given at the same time.

    Example: emerge.pl BigWigs -rf Cartographer
    This would emerge BigWigs and Cartographer but only Fetch the Zip files without Installing them and doing so even if the local Versions are already up to date


4) Dependencies

One of the Major Features this System has is to Check for Depending Addons and emerging/updating them in one process.
To do this a dependency file is necessary which tells the system which Addon belongs to which dependency.
The file that describes that is the "emerge.depend".
Since there is no easy way to track all dependency's yet the file has to be edited manually.
I will try to keep the Dependency table up to date, if you find missing or incorrect entry's please let me know.


5) Masking Packages

Within the File emerge.mask you can Specify Addons that are "masked".
This means that these will not be updated and not be available for Installation.


6) Disclaimer

The Idea and Implementation of the Portage System is loosely based on the EBuild and Portage System of the Gentoo Linux Distribution (www.Gentoo.org).

Do not redistribute the Script and/or it's Modules under different name without asking for permission to do so first.

You are free to apply changes in the code for yourself but do not distribute these under different Versions. Instead let me know about them and i will see to implement them should they be useful/necessary.

The WoWAce Portage System and all it's Scripts/Modules are provided as-is. Use them at your own Risk.